= s3aps

The "s3" bit of the name refers to Amazon's {S3}[http://aws.amazon.com/s3/] 
(simple storage service). The "aps" bit of the name is a reference to the 
{taps}[https://github.com/ricardochimal/taps] gem that inspired this gem. Taps will 
push and pull data between remote and local databases. S3aps will push and pull files between S3 
and the filesystem.

== Usage

List the files in an S3 bucket and on filesystem

  s3aps list

Copy files from S3 to filesystem

  s3aps pull

Copy files from filesystem to S3

  s3aps push

== S3 Credentials

You can provide your S3 credentials either on the command line or in a YAML file. By default, S3aps
will look for a file called <tt>s3.yml</tt> in the current directory and then in a sub-directory called +config+.
If your YAML is somewhere else then use the <tt>--config</tt> option:

  s3aps list --config my_s3.yml

It looks for the following values:

* bucket
* key (aliased as access_key_id)
* secret (aliased as secret_access_key)

The YAML file might look like this:

  bucket: foo
  key: 01234567890123456789
  secret: abcdefabcdefabcdef

If your YAML file is separated into environments then you'll need to tell it which one you're interested 
in:

  s3aps list --config my_s3.yml --env production

In which case, the YAML file might look like this:

  staging:
    bucket: foo.staging
    key: 01234567890123456789
    secret: abcdefabcdefabcdef
  production:
    bucket: foo.production
    key: 01234567890123456780
    secret: abcdefabcdefabcdef

You can also define (or override) the credentials on the command line:

  s3aps list --bucket foo --key 01234567890123456789 --secret abcdefabcdefabcdef

== Synchronizing two S3 buckets

You can do this by pulling the files to the filesystem and then pushing them to a new
bucket. For instance, if you have two environments setup in <tt>s3.yml</tt>, you might do this:

  s3aps pull --env production
  s3aps push --env staging

== SSL

S3aps uses the http protocol on port 80. This is not configurable.

== Sloppy Sync

This early version is satisfied that two files are synchronized if the file exists locally and remotely. 
That works for what I need it for right now. I don't change files, just add new ones. However, I'd like 
to add an MD5 check too. I'd make that an option rather than the default because it makes it more time 
consuming.

It doesn't attempt to delete files that shouldn't be there. That would be useful and I am considering
adding a <tt>--delete</tt> option to do that. It's also a little scary.

== Hand Holding

It's quite easy to write stuff to production. We should seek confirmation, like Taps does. Fortunately, 
that risk is mitigated a little by not having a delete feature. I guess we should make it a bit more
cautious when we do have delete.

== Performance

I only use this on a smallish bucket. Only a few thousand files and none more than a couple of Mb in 
size. It works very well in that situation. It does some non-scalable things like put a list of
all the local and remote files in a couple of arrays so that it can quickly see what is different. At 
some point that is going to be a problem if you are dealing with lots of files.

Similarly, it copies the file by reading the whole lot and then writing it out again. That won't work
very well if you have files that are, say, 1Gb in size. 

== Meta

Written and maintained by {Bill Horsman}[http://bill.logicalcobwebs.com]. Hat tip to {Ricardo Chimal, Jr}[http://github.com/ricardochimal] for inspiration with {Taps}[https://github.com/ricardochimal/taps]. Thanks to {Mikel Lindsaar's}[https://github.com/mikel] RailsConf 2010 talk, {Itch Scratching the ActionMailer API}[http://en.oreilly.com/rails2010/public/schedule/detail/14225], for encouragement to contribute.

Released under the {MIT License}[http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php]
